What is the server and what is the client?

The World Wide Web is about communication between web clients and web servers.
Clients are often browsers (Chrome, Edge, Safari), but they can be any type of program or device.
Servers are most often computers in the cloud.
The server is a machine that makes a response to a client request.
The client is any machine that makes a request.

What is http?

Communication between clients and servers is done by requests and responses:
1. A client (a browser) sends an HTTP request to the web
2. A web server receives the request
3. The server runs an application to process the request
4. The server returns an HTTP response (output) to the browser
5. The client (the browser) receives the response

HTTP stands for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol
Communication between client computers and web servers is done by sending HTTP Requests and receiving HTTP Responses

What is Node.js?

Node.js is software that allows you to use JavaScript to write the application part of the backend.
The application is written in different .js files, and are then read and executed using the node command in the Command Line.
For example, node script.js.

Node.js is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine and executes JavaScript code outside a web browser.
Node.js is an open source server environment
Node.js uses JavaScript on the server
Node.js can generate dynamic page content
Node.js can create, open, read, write, delete, and close files on the server
Node.js can collect form data
Node.js can add, delete, modify data in your database
Node.js files contain tasks that will be executed on certain events
A typical event is someone trying to access a port on the server
Node.js files must be initiated on the server before having any effect
Node.js files have extension ".js"

What is backend programming?

When people refer to backend programming, they usually refer to writing the application part of the backend: the software that interacts with a server and database, and moves data from one computer to the next.
The application consists of code that will be read by a database and/or server, so that they know what to do with the incoming input.

What is Middleware?

Middleware essentially describes any software on the server that connects an application’s front end to its back end.
Think of middleware as plumbing for your site—it pipes any communication,
like requests and responses, back and forth between your application and your server/database.

What does LAMP stand for?

The classic set of backend technologies (the “technology stack”) is called LAMP.
It is an acronym that stands for Linux (operating system), Apache (server), MySQL (database), PHP (server-side language).


